README.md, before:

# MegaStream

Full pipeline for CAD-based generalizable 6DoF pose estimation and tracking, based on CNOS, MegaPose and DeepAC.

## Modules
*Great thanks to these works. Please check the original page for more information.*
- [CNOS](https://github.com/nv-nguyen/cnos)
- [MegaPose](https://github.com/megapose6d/megapose6d)
- [DeepAC](https://github.com/WangLongZJU/DeepAC)

## News
- [Jan. 25th, 2024] Integrate DeepAC for tracking mode, which is faster than the original tracking with refine-model.

## Installation 
1. Clone the repository
```
git clone https://github.com/Jianxff/megastream
cd megastream
```

2. Setup conda environment
```
# create conda environment
conda env create -f environment.yaml
conda activate megastream

# install pytorch3d
conda install pytorch3d==0.7.1 -c pytorch3d

# check the version of pytorch and cuda
# if error occurs, re-install pytorch with: conda install pytorch==1.11.0 -c pytorch
```

3. Download DeepAC checkpoint
```
# Follow the link on 'https://github.com/WangLongZJU/DeepAC' to download checkpoint file.
# Extract the checkpoint file
# Move 'model_last.ckpt' and 'train_cfg.yml' to '${PROJECT_ROOT}/data/checkpoints/deep_ac'
```

4. Download other checkpoints [Optional]
```
# pre-download checkpoints for CNOS and MegaPose
# the checkpoints will also be automatically downloaded when running the pipeline
python -m scripts.download_checkpoints
```

## Todo
- [ ] Integrate MobileSAM for faster 2D detection
- [ ] Integrate GigaPose for faster coarse estimation

## Note
- The Pipelien is currently support for `single object` detection and pose estimation.
- The modified CNOS model is based on `FastSAM` , for other model such as SAM and MobileSAM, edit the code at `${PROJECT_ROOT}/modules/cnos`.
- Due to render conflict or other reason, the template-rendering process is not able to be integrated into full pipeline. 
- The process speed is related to the resolution of input frames and the size of object model.

## Interface
1. Construct the pipeline
```
MegaStream(
    image_size: Tuple[int, int],        # (width, height)
    mesh_path: Union[Path, str],        # path to mesh files (ply/obj)
    use_depth: Optional[bool] = False,  # use depth or not
    sync: Optional[bool] = False,       # synchronize processing each frame
    calib: Optional[Path] = None,       # path to calibration file
    auto_download: Optional[bool] = True,   # auto download checkpoints
    log: Optional[bool] = False,            # log iteration info
    apply_tracking: Optional[bool] = False  # enable tracking mode
)
```

2. Push a frame to pipeline
```
MegaStream.Push(
    frame: np.ndarray,
    depth: Optional[np.ndarray] = None
)
```

3. Get latest estimation result
```
MegaStream.Get() -> Tuple[pose6d_dict, score_float]
```

## Usage
1. Pre-Process CAD model
```
# only *.obj and *.ply are supported
python -m scripts.register_object ${path/to/model.ply(obj)}
```

- For using simplified model to accelerate rendering template views for DeepAC
```
Type '--simpled ${path/to/simpled/*.ply(obj)}' as argument
```

2. Run the pipeline on video
```
# Run basic pipeline on rgb video
python -m scripts.run_megastream_on_video 
    --input ${path/to/rgb.mp4} 
    --object ${path/to/model.ply(obj)} 
    --output ${path/to/output.mp4}
```

- For apply tracking mode with DeepAC
```
# Type '--track' as argument
```

- For using depth map to run ipc refine
```
# Depth images should be packed as RGB video
# Type '--depth ${path/to/depth.mp4}' as argument
```

- For simulating real-time process of input frames
```
# Type '--no-sync' as argument
```

## Test on HO3D Dataset
**Synchronized Process**
<video src="https://github.com/Jianxff/megastream/assets/35654252/5089aa68-8739-42ad-b2e7-1ba178e25ea6"></video>

**Realtime Simulation**
<video src="https://github.com/Jianxff/megastream/assets/35654252/c93d955d-c5b1-4e4a-beb8-823e858aae3a"></video>

**Synchronized with Tracking**
<video src="https://github.com/Jianxff/megastream/assets/35654252/6e5757b6-bc7a-48f6-b13e-eec862f51c62"></video>

Commit message:

update real-time web viewer

README.md, after:

# MegaStream

Full pipeline for CAD-based generalizable 6DoF pose estimation and tracking, based on CNOS, MegaPose and DeepAC.

## Modules
*Great thanks to these works. Please check the original page for more information.*
- [CNOS](https://github.com/nv-nguyen/cnos)
- [MegaPose](https://github.com/megapose6d/megapose6d)
- [DeepAC](https://github.com/WangLongZJU/DeepAC)

## News
- [Jan. 25th, 2024] Integrate DeepAC for tracking mode, which is faster than the original tracking with refine-model.

## Installation 
1. Clone the repository
```
git clone https://github.com/Jianxff/megastream
cd megastream
```

2. Setup conda environment
```
# create conda environment
conda env create -f environment.yaml
conda activate megastream

# install pytorch3d
conda install pytorch3d==0.7.1 -c pytorch3d

# check the version of pytorch and cuda
# if error occurs, re-install pytorch with: conda install pytorch==1.11.0 -c pytorch
```

3. Download DeepAC checkpoint
```
# Follow the link on 'https://github.com/WangLongZJU/DeepAC' to download checkpoint file.
# Extract the checkpoint file
# Move 'model_last.ckpt' and 'train_cfg.yml' to '${PROJECT_ROOT}/data/checkpoints/deep_ac'
```

4. Download other checkpoints [Optional]
```
# pre-download checkpoints for CNOS and MegaPose
# the checkpoints will also be automatically downloaded when running the pipeline
python -m scripts.download_checkpoints
```

## Todo
- [ ] Integrate MobileSAM for faster 2D detection
- [ ] Integrate GigaPose for faster coarse estimation

## Note
- The Pipelien is currently support for `single object` detection and pose estimation.
- The modified CNOS model is based on `FastSAM` , for other model such as SAM and MobileSAM, edit the code at `${PROJECT_ROOT}/modules/cnos`.
- Due to render conflict or other reason, the template-rendering process is not able to be integrated into full pipeline. 
- The process speed is related to the resolution of input frames and the size of object model.

## Interface
1. Construct the pipeline
```
MegaStream(
    image_size: Tuple[int, int],        # (width, height)
    mesh_path: Union[Path, str],        # path to mesh files (ply/obj)
    use_depth: Optional[bool] = False,  # use depth or not
    sync: Optional[bool] = False,       # synchronize processing each frame
    calib: Optional[Path] = None,       # path to calibration file
    auto_download: Optional[bool] = True,   # auto download checkpoints
    log: Optional[bool] = False,            # log iteration info
    apply_tracking: Optional[bool] = False  # enable tracking mode
)
```

2. Push a frame to pipeline
```
MegaStream.Push(
    frame: np.ndarray,
    depth: Optional[np.ndarray] = None
)
```

3. Get latest estimation result
```
MegaStream.Get() -> Tuple[pose6d_dict, score_float]
```

## Usage
1. **Pre-Process CAD model**
```
# only *.obj and *.ply are supported
python -m scripts.register_object ${path/to/model.ply(obj)}
```

- For using simplified model to accelerate rendering template views for DeepAC
```
Type '--simpled ${path/to/simpled/*.ply(obj)}' as argument
```


2. **Run the pipeline on video**
```
# Run basic pipeline on rgb video
python -m scripts.run_megastream_on_video 
    --input ${path/to/rgb.mp4} 
    --object ${path/to/model.ply(obj)} 
    --output ${path/to/output.mp4}
```

- For apply tracking mode with DeepAC
```
# Type '--track' as argument
```

- For using depth map to run ipc refine
```
# Depth images should be packed as RGB video
# Type '--depth ${path/to/depth.mp4}' as argument
```

- For simulating real-time process of input frames
```
# Type '--no-sync' as argument
```


3. **Run real-time pipeline on webcam**
```
# Based on streamlit and streamlit-webrtc
python -m scripts.run_stremlit --object ${path/to/object.ply(obj)}
```

- For logging
```
# Type '--log' as argument
```

- For more info about streamlit-webrtc  
  [Streamlit-WebRTC](https://github.com/whitphx/streamlit-webrtc?ref=blog.streamlit.io)


## Test on HO3D Dataset
**Synchronized Process**
<video src="https://github.com/Jianxff/megastream/assets/35654252/5089aa68-8739-42ad-b2e7-1ba178e25ea6"></video>

**Realtime Simulation**
<video src="https://github.com/Jianxff/megastream/assets/35654252/c93d955d-c5b1-4e4a-beb8-823e858aae3a"></video>

**Synchronized with Tracking**
<video src="https://github.com/Jianxff/megastream/assets/35654252/6e5757b6-bc7a-48f6-b13e-eec862f51c62"></video>
